@c This is part of GNU tar manual.
@c Copyright 1992, 1994-1997, 1999-2004, 2006, 2013-2014, 2016-2017 Free
@c Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See file tar.texi for copying conditions.

@c This file contains support for 'renditions' by Fran@,{c}ois Pinard
@c I extended it by adding a FIXME_FOOTNOTE variable, which controls
@c whether FIXME information should be placed in footnotes or
@c inlined. --gray

@c ======================================================================
@c This document has three levels of rendition: PUBLISH, DISTRIB or PROOF,
@c as decided by @set symbols.  The PUBLISH rendition does not show
@c notes or marks asking for revision.  Most users will prefer having more
@c information, even if this information is not fully revised for adequacy,
@c so DISTRIB is the default for distributions.  The PROOF rendition
@c show all marks to the point of ugliness, but is nevertheless useful to
@c those working on the manual itself.
@c ======================================================================

@c Set this symbol if you wish FIXMEs to appear in footnotes, instead
@c of being inserted into the text.
@c @set PROOF_FOOTNOTED

@ifclear PUBLISH
@ifclear DISTRIB
@ifclear PROOF
@set DISTRIB
@end ifclear
@end ifclear
@end ifclear

@ifset PUBLISH
@set RENDITION The book, version
@end ifset

@ifset DISTRIB
@set RENDITION FTP release, version
@end ifset

@ifset PROOF
@set RENDITION Proof reading version
@end ifset

@c Output marks for nodes needing revision, but not in PUBLISH rendition.

@macro UNREVISED
@ifclear PUBLISH
@quotation
@emph{(This message will disappear, once this node revised.)}
@end quotation
@end ifclear
@end macro

@c Output various FIXME information only in PROOF rendition.

@macro FIXME{string}
@ifset PROOF
@ifset PROOF_FOOTNOTED
@footnote{@strong{FIXME:} \string\}
@end ifset
@ifclear PROOF_FOOTNOTED
@cartouche
@strong{<FIXME>} \string\ @strong{</>}
@end cartouche
@end ifclear
@end ifset

@end macro

@macro FIXME-ref{string}
@ifset PROOF
@strong{<REF>} \string\ @strong{</>}
@end ifset
@ifclear PROOF
@cite{\string\}
@end ifclear
@end macro

@macro FIXME-pxref{string}
@ifset PROOF
See @strong{<PXREF>} \string\ @strong{</>}
@end ifset
@ifclear PROOF
See @cite{\string\}
@end ifclear

@end macro

@macro FIXME-xref{string}
@ifset PROOF
See @strong{<XREF>} \string\ @strong{</>}
@end ifset
@ifclear PROOF
See @cite{\string\}
@end ifclear
@end macro

@c End of rendition.texi
